e
[Music]
the
9,55 second meeting of the Security
Council is called to
order the provisional agenda for this
meeting is the situation in the Middle
East including the Palestinian
question the agenda is
adopted in accordance with rule 37 of
the council's provisional rules of
procedure I invite the representatives
of Israel Qatar and Tunisia to
participate in this meeting it is so
decided I propose that the council
invite the permanent Observer of the
Observer state of Palestine to the
United Nations to participate in this
meeting in accordance with the
provisional rules of procedure and the
previous practice in this
regard there being no objection it is so
decided the security Council will now
begin its consideration of item two of
the
agenda members of the council have
before them document
s224 SL
173 the text of a draft resolution
submitted by Algeria
the council is ready to proceed to the
vote on the draft resolution before
it I now give the floor to those members
of the council who wish to make
statements before the vote I give the
floor to the representative of
Algeria thank you Madame
President I wish to extend my sincere
appreciation
for your efforts in convening this
meeting to deliberate and take action on
the draft resolution s
173 the draft resolution and their
consideration is the culmination of
extensive
discussions among among council
members
as the
primary custodian of International Peace
and
security the security Council cannot
afford passivity in face of the call for
its ceasefire in
Gaza by presenting this
text Our intention
is to empower the council to fulfill its
mandate and protect
lives
commencing with an immediate
humanitarian
ceasefire ample time have been afforded
for council members to
deliberate on the content of the text
our
approach
involved meticulous
consideration of received proposal and
Amendment
resulting in what we
believe is a balanced
text capable of
garnering broad
support the draft resolution ution and
the scores key elements
including
one a humanitarian ceas
fire
second 100 a delivery to all parts of
Gaza of the Gaza
Strip
third rejection of forced displacement
of
Palestinians
four compliance with provisional
measures ordered by the
international court of
justice and Fifth and
last the imperative for all parties to
respect their
obligations under International
humanitarian law Madame President
throughout this
process we have heard calls to give time
to a parallel
track in order to preserve its
Chances with concern raised that any
action from the council
would geop pariz this
effort
however almost one
month after the
icg
orders signs of Hope are still
absent for improvement of the situation
in
Gaza
silence silence we content is not a
viable
option now is the time for
action and the time for
truth Madame
President members of the security
Council bear the responsibility of
voting in favor of measures that
uphold International Peace and
security this resolution
is a stance for truth and
Humanity standing against the advocates
for
murder and
hatred a vote in favor of this draft
resolution is a support to the
Palestinians right to
life
conversely voting
against voting against it implies an
endorsement of the brutal violence and
Collective punishment
inflicted upon
them a positive
vote for the draft brings hope for
hundreds of thousands of
children to return to
school and enjoy their right
right to
education
conversely voting against the draft
resolution is a vote in favor of
annihilating their
dream for a better
life a vote in favor of the draft
resolution stands in solidarity with the
right of Palestinian
women while while opposing it means to
accept degrading
practices that destroy their
dignity
furthermore supporting the draft
resolution means endorsing the
Palestinian right to
food rejecting it constitutes however an
approval of
starvation as me war of war against
hundreds of thousands of
Palestinian a vote in favor of the draft
is a defense of the right to
health while voting against it is an
approval of
violations
violation of Hospital
sanctity and an announced death of those
those who
escaped it in the first place Madame
President the council must not merely
call for a
ceasefire it must ensure steadfast
adance by all
parties the International Community must
act
swiftly as the value of ceasefire
diminishes with each passing
moment we are rapidly approaching a
critical
juncture where the call to hold the
Machinery of
violence will lose its
significance
today every Palestinian is a target for
death
extermination and genocide
we should ask ask
ourselves how many innocent
lives must be
sacrificed before the council deems it
necessary to call for a
ceasefire for
us and I hope for all the security
members I hope for all the
security Council
members
Palestinians Palestinian
lives
matter each one of
us decide where to stand in this tragic
chapter of History I thank
you I thank the representative of
Algeria for his statement and I now give
the floor to the representative of the
United United
States colleagues for months the United
States has
tirelessly pushed toward a goal that all
of us should aspire
to a sustainable resolution of the Gaza
conflict so that Israelis and
Palestinians can live side by side and
enjoy equal measures of security dignity
and
freedom to build towards that future the
United States is working on a hostage
deal between Israel and Hamas along with
Egypt and Qatar this hostage deal would
bring an immediate and sustained period
of calm to Gaza for at least 6 weeks and
from there we could take the time to
build a more enduring
peace President Biden has had multiple
calls in recent days with prime minister
netan Yahoo as well as the leaders of
Egypt and Qatar to push this deal
forward and though gaps Remain the key
elements are on the table so that if an
arrangement is reached it would help
create the conditions for sustainable
cessation of hostilities which I know
all of us would like to
see of course we want this deal to
happen as soon as possible as is shown
by our exhaustive efforts but sometimes
hard diplomacy takes more time than any
of us might like believe me I understand
the desire for the council to act
urgently to positively shape the
situation in line with the security
council's
mandate still that desire cannot blind
us to the reality of the situation on
the ground it and it cannot come at the
expense of undermining the only and let
me repeat the only path available
towards a longer durable
peace and that is why you've heard me
say over and over again any action this
Council takes right now should help not
hinder these sensitive and ongoing
negotiations and we believe that the
resolution on the table right now would
in fact negatively impact those
negotiations demanding an immediate
unconditional ceasefire without an
agreement requiring Hamas to release the
hostages will not bring about a durable
peace instead it could extend the
fighting between Hamas and Israel extend
the hostages time in captivity and
experience described by former hostages
as hell and extend the dire humanitarian
crisis Palestinians are facing in Gaza
none of us want that and so I reiterate
the United States belief that while
numerous parties engage in sensitive
negotiations this is not the time for
this resolution which jeopard
jeopardizes these efforts colleagues I
communicated our concerns publicly and
privately over the last several weeks
we've submitted numerous rounds of edits
all were ignored
and so for that reason the United States
has offered an alternative resolution
that would do what this text does
not pressure Hamas to take the hostage
deal that is on the table and help
secure a pause that allows humanitarian
assistance to reach Palestinian
civilians in desperate need again
there's much more we all agree on and
the alternative resolution put forward
by the United States is rooted in those
shared belief beliefs to start in line
with President Biden's comments last
week our text calls for a temporary ceas
fire in Gaza as soon as practicable
based on the formula of all hostages
being released last I checked no one
here opposes this a majority of us also
agree that it's time for this Council to
condemn Hamas we know because you
provided that feedback to Russia on its
prst and to Algeria on its resolution a
feedback that was inexplicably
ignored should the US resolution be
adopted it would be the first to condemn
Hamas for the abor attacks of October
7th including the sexual violence
documented that day the US text also
makes clear that Hamas has no place in
future governance of Gaza nor does Hamas
represent the dignity or
self-determination of the Palestinian
people again all things I believe we
agree on in addition our draft states
there can be no reduction of territory
in the Gaza Strip and rejects as we have
before in resolution
2720 any forc displacements of civilians
in
Gaza it also highlights the concerns
many council members have regarding the
fate of civilians in Rafa making clear
that under current circumstances a major
ground offensive in trafa should not
proceed colleagues this is not as some
members have claimed an American effort
to cover for an imminent ground
incursion rather it is a sincere
statement of our concern for the 1.5
million civilians who've sought refuge
in
Rafa civilians must be protected and
have access to humanitarian assistance
and basic
services on that note our text outlines
a path for implementation of resolution
27202 uh 2712 and
2720 including Provisions that call for
the expansion of Aid at scale it also
further clarifies and strengthens the
Mandate of the senior humanitarian and
reconstruction coordinator for Gaza
ziger kog whose plan I know we all
support as in previous resolutions it
places an emphasis on the protection of
civilians and humanitarian workers and
it calls for lifting all barriers to the
provision of humanitarian assistance
opening additional humanitarian routes
and keeping current border crossings
open our draft also aims to support the
secretary General's effort to investig
at those UNR Personnel who directly
participated in October 7th and it
supports the work of the independent
review group led by Katherine Colona
focused on ensuring unrest
neutrality these and other steps are
necessary to restore donor
confidence finally and as always the
draft reiterates our unwavering
commitment to the vision of the
two-state solution where two Democratic
states Israel and Palestine live side by
side in peace within secure and
recognized borders under a revamped and
revitalized Palestinian
Authority colleagues this resolution
reflects the many ideas that have been
shared over the past month but which are
not reflected in the text before us
today and we believe it will both
support the ongoing negotiations and lay
the groundwork for a sustainable peace
in the region but in addition to getting
the what of this text correct we also
know it's critical to get the how and
when of it right too we will work in
Earnest in negotiating this text and
indeed intend to leave time for everyone
to comment rather than impose an
arbitrary deadline for the
vote colleagues we're at a pivotal
moment and a critical
one critical for the hostages who've
been held captive for nearly 20 weeks in
Gaza and critical for their families who
are desperate to be reunited with their
loved ones
critical for Palestinians whose homes
and families have been destroyed and who
now wonder where they'll find their next
meal critical for Israelis many of whom
are still displaced or face barges of
Rocket fire critical for Palestinian
civilians in the West Bank who are at
heightened risk of extremist settler
violence critical for humanitarian
workers and journalists who put their
lives on the line every day to do their
jobs and critical to everyone who
desperately want to see sustainable
peace in this region that includes I
believe every single person in this
room and so let us commit to doing this
the right way and at the right time so
that we can create the right conditions
for a safer more peaceful future thank
you madam president I thank the
representative of the United States for
her statement and I now give the floor
to the representative of the Russian
Federation
Madam
president for the fifth month now in
Gaza unpr unprecedented violence has
been Unleashed in Gaza the magnitude of
which has surpassed any conflict that
humankind has encountered following the
second world war the number of the Dead
civilians has reached the shocking
threshold of 30,000 people and these are
only
estimates in all this time the United
Nations security Council has been unable
to adopt a critically important
resolution with a demand for an
immediate ceasefire I wish to recall
that on the 16th of October last year
when Russia proposed the very first
draft resolution with this call the
number of the Dead Palestinians were
approximately 1,000 people at that point
Western delegations of the council
preferred to obain on mass in order not
to incur the ire of Washington colle
will be no exaggeration to state that
this new figure 20 more than 28,000 dead
is the cost of that very first
disgraceful in action this is the
collective responsibility of Western
delegations at the security C for whom
solidarity within NATO transend any L
National declarations on commitment to
International humanitarian law the
protection of civilians and humanitarian
Personnel since then the United States
three times exercised their right to the
veto exercis their veto in order to
prevent the council's adoption of
Demands foras fire each
time heard from the US delegation those
samees and hypocritical calls to just
wait a little bit longer to give time
for their effective allegedly effective
diplomacy on the ground however this did
not yield any results and it could not
yield any results because the real goal
of Washington is not to achieve peace in
the Middle East not to protect civilians
but rather to advance their geopolitical
agenda demanding at any cost for their
closest Middle East Ally to be shielded
this is why Washington having pushed
through in Security Council resolution
2720 an effective license to Kill for
Israel to kill Palestinians on the
occupied Palestinian territory under the
pretex of iote establishing conditions
for cessation of hostilities which is
something we warned about contines to
provide International cover for the
authorities of Western J Jerusalem and
uh uphold their impunity for Myriad
crimes against the people of
Gaza distinguished colleagues of the
delegation of Algeria on behalf of the
Arab group propos a robust balanced
draft resolution at the heart of which
is a long anticipated ceas fire our
colleagues our Algerian colleagues
organized negotiations in good faith
conscientiously they consulted with all
delegations and they strove to take
their remarks into account and we wish
to highlight in particular the
professionalism shown by our Algerian
negotiating
team however the US delegation this time
from the very beginning
effectively put forward an ultimat
demanding a Hal
our us colleagues asserted that the
draft proposed by Algeria was dangerous
in so far as it would obstruct so-called
delicate diplomacy on the ground we just
heard the same in this
Hall we call on all of you to consider
the cynicism of this argument
effectively Washington has been
proclaiming that the security Council of
the United Nations is in the way of its
plans and demanding that it the security
Council interfere in the US's plans and
our my us colleague just yesterday
publicly stated that they would vote
against the
Algerian dis colle the United States
time and time again has been
demonstrating utter disregard both for
international institutions and
multilateral diplomacy and international
law today essentially the authority and
the standing of the United Nations
Security Council is at stake we call
upon the membership of the security
Council to demonstrate solid
counter the lawlessness of Washington
which is willing to countenance any
sacrifice in any region for the
advancement of its geopolitical
Ambitions the US government has no
concern either for the lives of the
people of God are nor the views of its
own people who are increasingly vocal in
their support of the Palestinian people
we should like to hope that within other
UN member states and member states of
Security Council that they generally
listen not if not to at least the voice
of conscience but at least to public
opinion public opinion will no longer
forgive United
Nations the situation in the south of
the strip around the city of Rafa is in
the context of Israeli military plans
exem dangerous the implementation of
these plans will result in a
catastrophical increase in the magnitude
of the humanitarian disaster at the
epicenter of which are more than 1
million residents of Goda who have LED
hostilities in the city to the border of
Egypt there is a need to do everything
possible to prevent this kind of a
development our shared objective is to
stop the Bloodshed as soon as possible
and to provide conditions for the
establishment to sustained channels for
the delivery of humanitarian assistance
to the people in the strip we urge the
security Council membership to vote in
support of the Algerian draft thank
you I thank the representative of the
Russian Federation for his
statement I shall put the draft
resolution to the vote
now will those in favor of the draft
resolution contained in document
s202
24173 please raise their
hand
those
against
abstentions the result of the Voting is
as follows 13 votes in favor one vote
against one
abstention the draft resolution has not
been adopted owing to the negative vote
of a permanent member of the
council I now give the floor to those
members of the council who wish to make
statements after the vote I give the
floor to the representative of the
United
States thank you madam
president colleagues over the past few
weeks we have made incredibly clear that
the resolution before the council would
not achieve the goal of a sustainable
peace and may in fact run counter to it
proceeding with a vote today was wishful
and
irresponsible and so while we cannot
support a resolution that would put
sensitive negotiations in Jeopardy we
look forward to engaging on a text that
we believe will address so many of the
concerns we all share a text that can
and should be adopted by the council so
that we can have a temporary ceasefire
as soon as practicable based on the
formula of all hostages being
released this temporary ceasefire is
critical to getting Aid into the hands
of Palestinian civilians who
desperately desperately need
it we should look towards this text so
that we can finally finally condemn
Hamas for their horrific attacks on
October 7th which set this conflict in
to motion so that we can Empower Senor
coordinator Cog and the United Nations
because her success is the UN
success and it is so very needed to
ensure civilians get the aid that they
need more efficiently and effectively
and just more period And so that
ultimately we can together help create a
future in which Israelis and
Palestinians live in states of their own
side by side in peace we're committed to
engaging constructively on our
resolution with you all in the days to
come to that in and we will continue to
tirelessly engage
in direct diplomacy and negotiations on
the ground thank
you of the United States for her
statement and I now give the floor to
the representative of
China thank you Madame President Madame
President
China expresses a strong
disappointment and and disatisfaction
with the outcome of the vote just taken
we have uh voted in favor of the
resolution
Algeria on behalf of the Arab states put
forward the draft resolution demanding a
uh immediate Gaza immediate release of
all hites guaranteed access for
humanitarian supplies and opposition to
for transfer
this is
both urgently required by the situation
on the ground and it is also based on
the minimum requirements of humanity and
it should deserve the support by all
council
members Algeria by displaying reason
sincerity and open attitude held lengthy
and extensive consultations with all
parties on the drop
resolution and to on board many
construct ideas making the draft
resolution more
balanced the outcome of today's vote
clear clearly shows that on the issue of
a to hold the fighting in Gaza it is not
that the security Council does not have
an overwhelming consensus but rather it
is the exercise of the veto by the
United States that has stifled the
council consensus the US veto sent a
wrong message pushing the situation in
Gaza into a more dangerous
one while the security Council CI
resolution is being V innocent civilians
in Gaza are dying in the fighting and
they are struggling on the brink of
death the US claimed that the council
resolution would interfere with the
ongoing diplomatic efforts such clim is
totally
UNT given the situation on the ground
the continued passive avoidance on an
immediate ceasefire is nothing different
from giving a green light to the
continu while the security Council cire
resolution is being beaten the spill
over of the conflict is destabilizing
the entire middle east region
leading to a rising risk of a wider War
only by extinguishing the Flames of war
in Gaza can we prevent our fires of
Health from engulfing the entire region
the council must act quickly to stop
this in the while the council C
resolution is being vetoed the basics of
international law are being trbl upon
and the bad of the multilateral system
is being
eroded the Secretary General of the
United Nations has already written to
the council invoking article 99 of the
charter and the international Court of
jce has issu provisional
measures the council must respond
forcefully to the serious violations of
the international law and international
humanitarian law in the Gaza conflict
and uphold the authority of
international rule of Madame President
the security Council must take actions
to push for this far this should not be
a matter of debate but rather this is a
moral obligation that the council cannot
shy away a legal responsibility that the
council must assume even more so this is
a political requirement that the council
must fulfill in accordance with the Char
The veto cannot marle the strong call
for sisire and Ender the war the
security Council cannot stop its work to
uphold Justice and fulfill its
responsibilities just because of the V
China urges Israel to call of the
International Community abandon his plan
from ra offensive and stop its
Collective punishment of the people of
pal we expect countries having
significant influence to do less of
their political calculations to be truly
impartial and responsible and to make
the right choice in pushing foris in
Gaza we call on the International
Community to pull all diplomatic efforts
to give the people of Gaza a chance to
live and give the people of the entire
middle east region a chance to have
peace and give it a chance for justice
to be upheld I thank you madam president
I thank the representative of China for
his statement and I now give the floor
to the representative of
Slovenia thank you very much uh Madame
President we voted uh for the resolution
because the killing of civilians in Gaza
must stop the suffering that
Palestinians are enduring is beyond
anything a human being should be
subjected
to a possible Israeli ground offensive
in Rafa would have unimaginable
humanitarian consequences it would push
us on a path of no return it is our duty
to react before we wake up in a
nightmare and that's why we are
convinced it is high time for the
council to pull a
break let me emphasize once again that
Slovenia condemns the horrific terrorist
attack by Hamas on 7 of October as well
as their continuing attacks on Israel we
continue to call for immediate and safe
release of all hostages we feel the pain
of their relatives and loved
ones and we thank the leaders of Egypt
Qatar and United States for their
tieless efforts and we hope that
negotiations they are facilitating will
soon bring peace to Gaza and return the
hostages home
safely however it is the responsibility
of this Council to to maintain
International Peace and security we
believe that everyone can and should
contribute their piece of the puzzle
that will eventually bring
peace we believe in compl
complimentarity of all efforts bilateral
Regional or those of the council the
council's role is important and it is
indispensable in order to end
hostilities to bring hostages home to
rapidly and safely deliver humanitarian
system
and to draft a day after road map lastly
the council has responsibility towards
the International Community its
expectations have been clearly expressed
through a general assembly resolution
with the overwhelming support of member
states it has been clearly manifested by
citizens across the globe their voices
are loud and clear the war needs to stop
the security Council needs to hear these
voices of global Consciousness and
respond to their demands and
pleas and it all starts with a call for
a ceasefire to end hostilities to bring
hostages home to bring water and food to
starving Palestinians and to silence and
clear the Skies over Gaza and Israel a
call addressed to both sides Israel and
Hamas it is our firm belief that Algeria
proposed a balanced text calling for
respect of international humanitarian
law on human rights law addressing all
violations committing by both sides of
the conflict and calling for
accountability for those
violations it is putting protection of
civilians as a civiliz civilized Norm in
the center of our action we therefore
deeply regret that the council was not
able to pass this resolution which we
supported strongly but we cannot give up
it is our responsibility to continue
working towards a consensus in this body
for peace in the Middle East thank you I
thank the representative of Slovenia for
his statement and I now give the floor
to the representative of
swiland thank you madam
chair of the draft
resolution regret that it was not
adopted despite the very broad support
it enjoys among the members of this
Council I would like thank the Algerian
delegation for its efforts in building
consensus around this text which calls
in particular for an immediate
humanitarian ceas in Gaza and immediate
and unconditional release of all
hostages held captive in Gaza since the
acts of Terror perpetrated by Hamas
on almost three weeks have passed since
the first draft of this text was
submitted welcomed the intense
negotiations taking place in the region
and stressed the
need to the necessary time to reach a
result at the same
time stress the responsibility of this
Council act in accordance with it
mandate for the respect of international
humanitarian law and especially the
protection of
civilians that a firmer and more
explicit condemnation of hamas's Acts of
Terror was not included in the
resolution despite the injunction of
several council members including
Switzerland protect the population in G
is growing by respect for international
humanarian LA and human rights
particular regards the protection of
civilians must remain a priority for
under conv the delivery of humanitarian
Aid must be safe rapid
and cannot allow hundreds of thousands
of besed civilians to be left
pre
guarante for the delivery of
humanitarian assistance and for their
own
protection very concerned the risk of a
large scale
military in Rafa and the sub Regional
escalation thetion was therefore
intended as a preventive meure against
further escalation on the spot which
would endanger the lives of all
civilians including the
host is why for iMed humanarian
ceasefire Ina
with our Collective commit to respect
andure respect for the and international
humanitarian law in all
circumstances remains committed to
unified action by Council in this
direction we also recall that the
parties are obliged to respect the two
previous Council resolutions on this
subject and we would also recall the
mandatory nature of the provisional
measures ordered by the international
cour of Justice on
January thank you I thank the
representative of Switzerland for her
statement and I now give the floor to
the representative of
France Madam chair France thanks Algeria
for prepar and proposing this resolution
it
regrets that the resolution was not aded
given the disaster situation on the
ground the immediate and unconditional
release of all
explicitly requested by resolutions 2712
and 272 of our as well as the draft that
was just rejected
should take place without further delay
there is Extreme urgency to without
further delay conclude an agreement on a
ceasefire that would finally guarantee
the protection of all civilians and a
massive delivery
of the human toll and humanitarian
situation in Gaza is intolerable and
Israeli operations must stop it's urgent
to massively deliver humanitarian Aid
to
imperative the
As and open land path directly
between incomprehensible acceptable that
this Council still has not condemned the
terrorist acts committed by Hamas on 7
October with other terrorist
and sexual violence used as we of War by
these terrorist we strongly deplore this
situation and call upon the
coun
itself reates attachment
to
security
continue resolutely be committed to full
mobilization of this Council on all
aspects of this crisis security
humanitarian and also
political
we recall that only a two solution can
possibly meet the needs of security for
Israel the isra people as well as
legitimate aspiration of the
Palestinians to estate it involves the
creation of a Palestinian state that
would live in peace and security
alongside Israel thank you I thank the
representative of France for his
statement and I now give the floor to
the representative of
mosambi Madame President I wish to begin
by expressing our gratitude to the
presidency of Guyana for having convened
this meeting to take action on this
important resolution on the Middle East
including the Palestinian
question we also express our sincere
appreciation to Algeria for the tireless
work that led to the tabling of the
resolution aimed
ATT ending the totally
unacceptable and unbearable suffering of
the Palestinian
people the humanitarian catastrophe
currently unfolding in
Gaza Madam
president by voting in favor of this
Security Council
resolution mosambik aligns ourself with
the International Community as a whole
in its effort
that
overwhelmingly calls for the immediate
session of hostilities in the Gaza
strep we consider it
imperative that all parties
scrupulously comply with their
obligations under International
humanitarian law and international law
human rights law in
particular with regard to the protection
of civilians and civilian
infrastructures we strongly call for the
total and full
compliance with the provisional measures
laid down by the order of the
international court of justice within
the scope of Articles two and three of
the convention on the prevention and
Punishment of the crime of genocide side
handed down on January 26
2024 throughout history we had our share
of a painful experience with all and
armed conflict it is on this
basis and the on the dictates of the
laws of war that we Embrace that mosm
firmly oppos es the forced
displacement of the Palestinian civilian
population women and children in
particular in that connection we
strongly appeal for the full
implementation of the United Nations
security Council
resolutions
2712 of
2023 and
2720 also of
2023 in the same vein mosambi demands
the immediate and unconditional release
of all hostages as well as a guarantee
of humanitarian access to meet the
medical needs of all
hostages Mr President Madame
President we urge the International
Community and the security Council in
particular to continue working
tirelessly together towards achieving
peace and stability in the region based
on a two-state solution for the people
of Palestine and Israel I thank you
Madame President I thank the
representative of mosambik for his
statement and I now give the floor to
the representative of the Republic of
Korea uh thank you m Madam president the
Republic of Korea voted in favor of the
resolution proposed by Algeria
considering the urgent need for a
humanitarian ceasefire to end the
suffering of civilians in Gaza right now
in Rafa where more than half of the
entire population of Gaza is densely
packed people are panicking at a looming
catastrophe that may be caused by a full
scale ground operation the Republic of
Korea could not ignore the possibility
of another humanitarian Calamity that
will lead to a huge number of
fatalities nonetheless we adhere to our
position that the heinous terrorist
attacks by Hamas on the 7th of October
is the direct cause of the current
disaster in
Gaza thus it is regrettable that the
clear and unified condemnation of the
deplorable terrorist Acts perpetrated by
Hamas was missing in the draft
resolution Madame President the Republic
of Korea takes note that serious
negotiations among key stakeholders
namely Egypt Qatar us and Israel are
vigorously ongoing on the ground to
achieve the long overdue release of the
hostages we express our strong support
and appreciation for these efforts the
Republic of Korea will continue to
engage in Council deliberations actively
and constructively to achieve a ceas
fire in Gaza as well as the realization
of the two State solution I thank
you representative of the Republic of
Korea for his statement and I now give
the floor to the representative of
Japan thank you Madame
President it has been over four months
of devast ation hostilities and
suffering since Hamas horrifying acts of
Terror against
Israel we are witnessing an alarming
escalation of violence and unimaginable
humanitarian catastrophe the situation
on the ground is only worsening as each
day goes by particularly the situation
in Rafa is deeply
concerning Japan appreciates the ongoing
tireless diplomatic efforts led by Us
and other countries towards the release
of hostages improving the humanitarian
situation and calming down the situation
as soon as
possible Japan believes that
humanitarian ceasefire needs to be
realized promptly in a such a way to
ensure a conducive environment for
sufficient humanitarian assistance
activities as well as to lead to the
release of the remaining hostages
therefore resulting in realizing ation
of a sustainable seize Fire based on
this position we'll call on all the
parties concerned to act immediately
from a humanitarian Viewpoint in this V
Japan voted in favor of this draft
resolution we would like to express our
gratitude to Algeria for their efforts
to coordinate various positions among
the council members at the same time in
efforts to ensure a more fa fair and
balanced text the resolution should have
included a condemnation of hamus
terrorist attacks which the security
Council has so far failed to speak
out though we couldn't agree on a
resolution which other the council
members can support we are all engaging
seriously to stop the violence this
Council should be should be a place to
explore and find a peace and SEC
security jointly not a uh place to aim
for finger pointing Japan will continue
to work constructively with other
council members to find the PATH toward
forward to for peace and stability in
the region thank you I thank the
representative of Japan for his
statement and I now give the floor to
the representative of Malta thank you
president Malta also thanks Algeria for
their measured and constructive approach
as can hold us throughout the
negotiations Malta voted in favor of
this draft and we unequivocally
reiterate our call for a permanent
ceasefire it is therefore regrettable
that the use of the veto prevents this
Council from calling for an end to this
conflict we also believe that the
council has provided the ongoing
negotiations taking place on the ground
the necessary space and time however
regrettably we still find ourselves on
the precipice of another wave of
hostilities this will undoubtedly have
catastrophic consequences on the
civilian population in Rafa an area
already designated as a safe Zone we
also reject and denounce any forced
displacement of the Palestinian civilian
population from and within Gaza such
actions amount to grave breaches of
international
law the severely deteriorating
humanitarian conditions and the threat
of fam famine within Gaza are extremely
troubling and need to be urgently
addressed Israel is required to
facilitate the full Rapid Safe and
impeded unimpeded delivery of
humanitarian Aid into Gaza at the same
time anra remains essential to ensure an
effective humanitarian
response the broader Regional situation
also continues to to be deeply worrying
under these circumstances the full and
immediate implementation of Security
Council resolutions 2712 and
2720 is now more pressing than ever let
us be clear this Council has the duty
and responsibility to make sure that its
decisions are respected we also Echo the
call for the remaining hostages to be
immediately safely and unconditionally
released and we call on this Council to
the announc the terrorist acts of
October 7th in closing president Malta
underlined unwavering commitment to a
comprehensive pece based on the two-
State solution thank you I thank the
representative of Malta for her
statement and I now give the floor to
the representative of the United
Kingdom thank you
President we want to see the fighting in
Gaza end as soon as possible
in a way that never again allows Hamas
to carry out the appalling terrorist
attacks against Israel we saw on the 7th
of
October last
year Palestinian civilians are facing a
devastating humanitarian
crisis we're particularly worried about
the situation in Rafa where a military
operation
could have appalling consequences for
civilians Sheltering there with nowhere
else to
go ongoing
negotiations are critical to secure the
release of the hostages held in
Gaza we are calling for an immediate
suspension in fighting to get Aid in and
hostages out leading to a permanent
sustainable
ceasefire that
means the release of all
hostages the formation of a new
Palestinian government for the West Bank
and Gaza accompanied by an international
support
package removing hamas's capacity to
launch attacks against
Israel Hamas no long longer in charge of
Gaza and a political Horizon which
provides a credible and irreversible
pathway towards a two-state
solution
President we welcome the efforts of our
aerian colleagues on this
resolution and we regret that some of
our proposals were not taken on
board simply calling
for a ceasefire as this resolution does
will not make it happen indeed as it
could endanger the hostage
negotiations it could actually make a
ceasefire less
likely the way to stop the fighting and
potentially stop it from
restarting is to begin with a pause to
get hostages out and Aid
in that is what what we are calling for
it could end the fighting
now we will continue to work for a stop
to
fighting a humanitarian response at
scale the release of all
hostages and the delivery of the two
sovereign states of Israel and Palestine
that ensures peace security and justice
for both
countries thank you I thank the
representative of the United Kingdom for
her statement and I now give the floor
to the representative of Sierra
Leon Madame
President the delegation of s Leon would
like to thank Algeria for proposing and
facilitating effort to agree to a
resolution that would have inter earlier
led to an immediate ceasefire in the
Gaza Street
we further thank the Algerian delegation
for leading a reasonable transparent and
inclusive
process s voted in favor of the draft
resolution because of the imperative for
an immediate humanitarian
ceasefire the Security Council is
mandated to act promptly and effectively
in order to maintain International Peace
and
security the council has had its
attention call to the dire humanitarian
situation in Gaza and for it to act
under article 99 of the UN Charter by
the Secretary
General some members of the security
Council have had the opportunity to
visit both Rafa Crossing from the
Egyptian border and
Israel including representatives of the
delegation of s
the assessment there from has been that
only a humanitarian ceasefire will put
an end to the unbearable killings in
Gaza and certainly the looming and
Unthinkable catastrophe in
Rafa CA appreciates and commends member
states embarking on diplomatic
engagement with parties to the conflict
to secure prolonged pause to the
hostilities but while we do so we remain
worried that reaching a meaningful
conclusion in Practical terms takes time
A luxury that cannot be afforded by the
suffering Palestinian people the
families of the hostages and the
hostages
themselves the other main organs of
United Nations have acted ously and
effectively in this tragic
conflict the UN General Assembly has
adopted resolutions es12 1 and Es
1022 with the overwhelming majority
demanding in the latter an immediate
humanarian ceasefire in
Gaza the secet general of the UN invoked
article 99 of the UN Charter last use
over half a century ago to warn Us in
this Council of the humanitarian
catastrophe we now see in
Gaza as council members we were urged to
demand an immediate humanitarian
ceasefire the international court of
justice has acted promptly and rightly
when called upon to do so by South
Africa throwing the requests for
indication of provisional measures the
icj in the 26th January 2024 order in
the application of the convention on the
prevention and Punishment of the crime
of genocide in the Gaza Street South
Africa versus Israel inter earlier
specifically ordered and I quote that
the state of Israel shall take immediate
and effective measures to enable the
provision of urgently needed basic
services and humanitarian assistance to
address the adverse conditions of Life
faced by Palestinians in the Gaza Street
end of
Court the court deem it necessary to
emphasize that all parties to the
conflict in the Gaza strep are bound by
International humanitarian
law it expressed its grave concern that
the fate of the ostage is adopted during
the attack in Israel on 7th October 2023
and held since there by hammer and other
armed groups and calls for their
immediate and unconditional
release the icj further reminded the
parties that the provisional measures
ordered under article 41 of the icj
statute have binding effect and thus
create International legal obligations
for any party to whom the provisional
measures are
addressed C is of the view that in the
absence of any primar facet change in
the current perilous humanitarian
conditions prevailing in
Gaza coupled with the continuing
perpetuation of the hostage situation
following the 26 January 2024 order of
the
icj the UN Security Council is now more
than ever compelled to
act to use the mer of tools available to
us as a council to save human lives and
put a check on the mountain dead toll
and inordinate destruction of Civilian
object Madame President it is extremely
worrisome that after over 130 days in
the
conflict a draft resolution calling for
an immediate humanitarian
ceasefire demanding the immediate and
unconditional release of all
hostages rejecting Force displacement of
the
Palestinians reiterating the call for
full Rapid Safe and unhindered
humanitarian access into Gaza and the
optimal political solution of a
two-state solution could not be adopted
which we deeply
regret at this stage with the immense
suffering vet and anguish in Gaza the
security Council must not relent until a
complete halt to the contined
hostilities in Gaza Street and in the
West Bank is
Achieve to do otherwise is to accept
passively the prevalent criticisms of
dysfunctionality of this
Council meanwhile the reality in Gaza is
that of faming like conditions
malnutrition displacement and the spread
of infectious diseases and the potential
for spillover of the conflict in The
Wider
region our failure to act extinguishes
hope the hope that 1.3 million
Palestinians in Rafa have licated to us
and Beyond this the hope that Humanity
has placed in us as members to deliver
on the council's
Mandate this must awaken our resolve to
act in closing Madame President San
sincerely looks forward to not only
having a positive outcome from the
ongoing diplomatic
negotiations being mediated by the
United States Egypt and Qatar but also
as a security Council would have have a
product that will call for full and
unconditional humanitarian ceasefire and
release of all
hostages this we hope will lead to an
end in the fighting and alleviate
humanitarian crisis in the Gaza stet I
thank you I thank the representative of
sier Leon for his statement and I now
give the floor to the representative of
Ecuador seora pres Madam
chair for the draft resolution that was
voted in favor of
it that the council needs to take a
stand on the humanitarian situation
which is constantly unra with thousands
of innocent
victims the draft that we just voted on
was not perfect and included in it all
the issues that we think were appropr
was presented after negotiations process
that included the necessary elements
about a situation which is
deteriorating mainly requests a
humanitarian ceas fire that will make it
possible to alleviate the situation for
the civilian population and it also
demands the immediate and unconditional
release of all hostages and it deor the
violence against civilians and all acts
of terrorism including
implicitly the horrific acts committed
by Hamas in October
last year
however it's worth
mentioning like several members of the
counil
required insistently required the text
have explicit condemnation of the
terrorist actions of Hamas and we regret
that it was not included in the text
that condation was not there however we
think it's important to clearly signal
the
responsibility that is
evident all those present and also point
to the responsibilities that will be
seen in
future Madam chair regret at this
time possible to adopt resol it will
continue working so that the council can
take a stance and act
effectively through successful adoption
thank you I thank the representative of
Ecuador for his statement and I now give
the floor to the represent resentative
of the Russian
Federation
president distinguished
colleagues today we have born witness to
yet
another dark chapter in The History of
the United Nations security Council this
was against again yet again written by
the United States delegation the US
delegation which continues to pursue the
same objective to provide cover for its
close middle e Ally and to drag out time
drag out that time to the greatest
possible extent for them to be able to
carry out their inhume plans against
Gaza specifically to expel the
Palestinians from the strip and to
completely cleanse the strip essentially
and quite literally transforming it into
an unhabitable
uninhabitable territory under these
circumstances there are open discussions
in political Israeli political circles
about categories which completely rule
out the two-state
solution once again having reped calls
again for calling an end to the Carnage
and gaja against demands to con condemn
the actions of Hamas in doing so our us
colleagues have once again
hypocritically remained silen Sil by the
fact that the 18th October they having
already vetoed the Brazilian draft
resolution with this
condemnation theeran draft was capable
of reversing this situation of ending
the annihilation of Palestinians in Gaza
unfortunately the latest the now fourth
us veto uh prevented this from happening
and doomed to uh the doomed the fates of
another thousands of peaceful Gaz
citizens of
Gaza however everybody needs to
understand that this result is not the
failure in the work of the UN SEC
Council which today was effectively
United rather this is the pernicious
policy of a single member of the
security Council namely the United
States full responsibility for the
consequences of this lies with
Washington regardless of its attempts to
elude this responsibility expatiating on
its quote unquote important mediation
efforts regardless of how bitter the
after Taste of today's meeting may be we
have no intention of throwing in the
towel the demand from the UN Security
Council for the parties to immediately
adopt a ceasefire remains imperative
absent this any Council product will be
devoid of practical purpose we all had
an opportunity to see this based on the
example of the toothless humanitarian
resolutions on Gaza that the council
previously adopted and these remained
letters on paper because as we
warned amid circumstances of active
hostilities it is impossible to deliver
humanitarian Assistance or to monitor
humanitarian
pauses now turning to the US tax which
previously today was so
proactively uh uh uh uh uh championed by
the United States
Representative as far as we are
aware this text has not even been
officially circulated at the security
Council not to mention the fact that
there was no comprehensive or meaningful
discussion
thereof for this reason for now this all
looks like further spoilers which are
designed to detract attention from the
latest shameful veto exercised by the US
veto on a critically significant
resolution for a ceasefire in
Gaza call on the membership of the
security Council not to be misled by the
duplicit admonitions that there is a
need to wait just a little bit
longer the United Nations security
Council in the world waited for five
months and with each passing hour that
we wait there are more and more human
victims the US draft does not contain I
emphasize this does not contain a call
for an immediate ceasefire in
Gaza the text refers only to a
temporary and even this when the
conditions are right so there is no real
alternative to the Algerian draft
resolution which a us
vetoed this uh a brainchild is no viable
alternative and cannot be any viable
alternative to that this is yet another
uh bad faith attempt by Washington to
drag out the time for the purposes of
advancing Israel's benefit interest and
allowing it to definitively resolve the
Palestinian question our shared
objective is to prevent
this from taking place and to achieve a
just peace between the Palestinians in
Israel on the basis of Security Council
resolutions and general assembly
resolutions let us resolve this together
and perhaps our us colleagues will at
some point have their conscience
awakened I thank the representative of
the Russian Federation for his statement
and I now give the floor to the
representative of
Algeria thank you Madame President
Madame
President at the
outset to
express my
appreciation to all the members of the
security
Council for constructively
participating in the
negotiations allow me to thank all
states that voted
for and not against the draft
resolution I also thank those
who because
this
mainly foras fire in
Gaza draft
resolution have sent a strong message to
Palestinians saying that the
world is not standing idly
by their
suffering
however however and
unfortunately the security Council
once
[Music]
again to rise to
the and
aspirations of peoples of the
world this
failure does not absolve the security
Council of shouldering its
responsibility
thises not absolve the International
Community of its
obligations the unarmed Palestinian
people
this does not absolve the occupation
power of its
obligation to implement the precau
me ordered by the international court of
justice it is high time for the
agression to
end it is high time for
humanitarian to be delivered across
Gaza
it is that
resolutions
2720 did not
achieve their
objectives it is
clear that
assistance did not meet the basic needs
needs of the Palestinian
[Music]
people we have to
acknowledge that only a
ceasefire only a
ceasefire can
achieve the desired
objective Madame
President the current
situation
requires
everyone as stressed by the Algerian
president his Excellency
[Music]
AB to
work on
putting the purposes and principles of
the United Nations first to provide the
necessary protection to the Palestinian
people and to put an end to their
history historic
Injustice Madame
President the people of our region have
always looked up to the security
[Music]
Council as the source of international
legitimacy
however and
unfortunately
the security Council has failed them
once
again our message to you
today is that the International
Community should respond to the calls
for
ending of
Palestinians by call
for an immediate
ceasefire all those ining such
calls should review their policies and
their
calculations because wrong decisions
today will have a cost on our region and
our world
tomorrow and this
caused violence and
instability so ask
yourselves examine your
conscience what will your decisions
today
cause how will history judge you
Madame
President before I
conclude I would like to tell
everyone that
we our
Martyrs this
evening in
rafaz in
Gaza
in all
Palestine and that
Algeria will return
tomorrow on behalf of the Arab
world behalf of Muslim
countries on behalf of all the free
people in the
world powered by the the souls thousands
of innocent
people by the Israeli
occupation with no
accountability
whatsoever Algeria will return to knock
on the doors of the security Council
once again to call
putting an end to the Bloodshed in
Palestine we will not
stop this Council
shoulders its responsibilities in
full and
imposes an immediate seiz
fire
we will never
tire and we will never stop thank you
Madame
President I thank the representative of
Algeria for his statement I shall now
make a statement in my capacity as the
representative of
Guyana colleagues Guyana is
disappointed that this Council has once
again been unable to deliver a ceasefire
for the people of
Gaza a ceasefire is the difference
between life and death for the hundreds
of thousands of Palestinians and others
trapped in the war zone that Gaza has
become the delegation of Algeria has
approached the tabling of this
resolution with great patience
transparen Y and
inclusivity they have listened to all
sides acquiescing to requests for
additional time to be given to other
efforts on the way it has been almost 3
weeks since the draft was
circulated and we still find ourselves
at square
one in that time almost 2,000 more
Palestinians were killed in Gaza another
2,000 more
injured in those 3 weeks every aspect of
life in Gaza has gotten worse internal
displacement has increased with a
serious crisis on the way in
Rafa food insecurity continued to worsen
with the latest integrated food security
and nutrition phase classification IPC
report stating that Gaza now has the
highest share of persons facing
devastating levels of acute food
insecurity that the IPC has ever
classified for any given area or
country the humanitarian situation has
been described as increasingly severe
humanitarian access is extremely limited
and people's desperation has led them to
looting Aid trucks to secure a marel of
food the population is in Dire Straits
the most vulnerable among them including
children the elderly and people with
underlying conditions are especially
vulnerable to
malnutrition and all of this is
happening in freezing
temperatures in that time we have also
seen a further hardening of positions
for the worse for example we have heard
heard the determination of the Israeli
government to proceed with the ground
operation in Rafa despite the strong
urgings to the contrary by many of its
friends and partners and others in the
International
Community we know what a ground
operation in Rafa would mean for the
people who were driven there by the
Israeli Defense
Force the icj orders of 26th of January
are being completely ignored
as though there is no obligation to
adhere to them un Personnel are
continuing to Opera in Gaza under these
extremely dangerous
circumstances with unprecedented numbers
of them killed since 7th of October the
confliction mechanisms are not being
respected so everyone is at risk and
nowhere is safe dear colleagues what
else needs to happen happen to act for
the people in Gaza how many more lives
must be lost how many more must be
maimed how many
more we need a ceasefire now resolutions
2712 and
2720 cannot be fully implemented if
there is no
ceasefire the longer we take to agree on
the need for a ceasefire the longer this
Council will be seen as being complicit
in what is taking place in
Gaza to be clear Guyana also calls for
the release of all hostages taken on
October 7th and Palestinians unlawfully
detained in Israeli prisons without
trial though progress has been stalled
for decades the two-state solution Still
Remains the best option for a permanent
and Lasting resolution of the
Palestinian question the current situ
situation in Gaza puts the two-state
solution at Great risk especially given
the rhetoric from some Israeli
government
officials gyana calls on this Council to
act now for Gaza and for the future of
both Palestine and Israel a peaceful and
stable Israel depends on a peaceful and
stable Palestine the two are not
mutually exclusive and a peaceful
Palestine and Israel is crucial for
lasting peace and stability of the
Middle East region I thank you I resume
my function as president of the
council I now give the floor to the
permanent Observer of the Observer state
of
Palestine Madame
President we thank you and your friendly
country
Guana for your leadership of the SEC
Security
Council we thank
Algeria for all its
efforts and its statement that my
brother Amar delivered few minutes
ago in bringing
forth the draft resolution on behalf of
the Arab
group that has just been
voted regarding the grave situation that
continues to be faced by the Palestinian
people in the Gaza Strip as Israel the
occupying power carries on with its
genocidal
War we also thank the 13 members of the
security
Council who voted in favor of the
draft and we thank you also for your
intense engagement with the Arab group
led by our brother the ambassador of
Algeria during the course of the last
three
weeks negotiating in good
faith of trying to save the Palestinian
people lives in the Gaza Strip and not
to allow the looming
catastrophe flying over our heads in
having a
further
catastrophe on the Gaza Strip we
sincerely thank you for that effort for
your principal position and for your
determination that a ceasefire has to be
demanded implemented now to save lives
to save the Gaza Strip to save the 1.5
million
Palestinians in the Rafa
District this draft resolution was
brought to the the council precisely
because Israel
persist with the onslaught persist with
every single grave breach it has been
committing despite the near unanimous
calls by the International Community for
a Seas fire and despite the icj
provisional measures ordered to Israel
to seize all acts of genocide and
incitement to
genocide and to ensure humanitarian
assist resistance to the Palestinian
people who every day are facing death
and destruction and the torment of
starvation and repeated Force
displacement it has been nearly 3 weeks
since I last addressed the council
following the Court's order appealing
for Action to be taken to ensure the
implementation of the pro of the
provisional measures to ensure a
ceasefire that would protect the
Palestinian people and a avert the
further ravaging of their lives by the
Israeli
Onslaught but our appeals have
regrettably been to no
avail between our last Council session
on the 31st of January and today the
casualty toll has risen from 26 ,000
Palestinians killed by the Israeli
occupying forces to now almost 30,000
people killed and more than 69,000
people
injured this means that in just the past
20 days
alone Israel has killed nearly 4,000
more Palestinian children women and men
in just 20 days
this is deplorable consequence of an
action it means more than 200
Palestinians killed every day it means
that by the time this Security Council
session ends more than 25 Palestinians
will have been killed it means more
babies will be murdered wounded
amputated and orphaned more children
will die for of hunger and
hypothermia and disease it means the
continued threat of the further Force
displacement of families the looming
danger of a mass expulsion or Worse
Slaughter of the nearly 1.5 million
people in rafah who have nowhere to flee
no protection
whatsoever it means the continued
deprivation of of the entire population
of Gaza left without food water medicine
and shelter essential to alleviate
suffering and ensure
survival it means that the human lives
that that could have been
saved and saved are instead being
forsaken to israeli's genocidal War
Machine deliberately knowingly by those
who oppose a
fire we all know
this we know the Staggering figures we
have heard the the warning from the
Secretary General the heads of all un
agencies on the ground dozens of
independent special repur and
humanitarian and human rights agencies
the world over we have seen it with our
own eyes in pictures and videos that
have seared and stained our Collective
conscience and broken our
hearts and our
Humanity in the face of israeli's brazen
violation of the icj order the court
sent another warning issued another
decision on 16 February reminding Israel
that it is bound to fully comply with
its obligations under the genocide
convention and all the provisional
measures ordered by the court on 26 26
January the court also had to remind
Israel that its obligations are
immediate and should be
effective
the call for ceasefire should have been
agreed to long time
ago what threshold needs to be crossed
for this Council to finally demand a
ceasefire what could be more serious
than the
crime than
genocide history as my brother Amar said
is going to judge the council
harshly it is already doing so impairing
its credibility and Authority in the
eyes of people all over the world
perhaps
irreparably but we will not be
complacent in in this
inaction we have a duty to our people to
seek every possible Pathway to bring an
end to the slaughter an end to the
trauma and Terror and an end to the
threats to expel them from their land we
will not be silent and we will act with
every legitimate means to uphold our
sacred obligations to defend and protect
our people and to pursue Justice for
them that is why we have come back to
the security Council over and over again
imploring it to act to protect our
people that is why we will not relent in
seeking
accountability calling on the council
the general assembly and all states to
act in line with the charter and all
obligations under international law
without selectivity without
exception we will not stop demanding
accountability for the war crimes crimes
against humanity and genocide that is
Israel is perpetrating against the
Palestinian people but accountability
must move beyond words in these chamers
it must mean real consequences for the
occupying power for its criminal
Behavior to this end I just have
returned around midnight last night from
the hag where the state of Palestine
stood before the
icj appealing to the court for justice
after more than 75 years of nakba 56
years of belligerent occupation 17 years
of blockade and nearly 140 days of in
vindictive punitive Siege and massacres
perpetrated by Israel in Gaza which is a
genocide what crimes has Israel not
committed yet we have gone to the court
along with an unprecedented number of
countries to confront the Israeli
impunity that has made life a living
hell for the Palestinian people
appealing for an immediate and complete
end to this illegal Colonial occupation
and aperti regime the root cause of all
the ills our people are suffering
including this genocidal War the court
has undertaken its solemn
duties acting swiftly both in response
to the case brought by South Africa
against Israel under the genocide
convention and in response to the
general assembly's request for advisory
opinion which we hope will be a true
turning point in the Quest for
accountability and for justice for the
Palestinian
people when will the security Council
finally undertake its solemn duties when
will the council act to demand the
ceasefire that has been demanded by the
rest of the International Community
majority for months now the veto of this
draft resolution is not only regrettable
after weeks of consultations with every
single council member and after endless
Patience by the state of Palestine the
Arab states and nearly the entire
International Community that for months
have demanded a ceasefire it is
absolutely Reckless and dangerous
against sh again shielding Israel even
as it commits the most shocking crimes
while exposing millions of innocent
Palestinian civilians to its wrath and
more Untold
Horrors it is not Israel that should be
protected by the veto it is Palestinian
children women and men who must be
protected by this Council acting now
only with a ceasefire can we give a
chance for life for resolution
2712 and 2720 to be
implemented as the president of the
security Council has indicated
correctly ceasefire would allow these
resolutions to be implemented to be
implemented for humanitarian assistance
to reach the millions of desperate
people in need for onoa and other un
agencies to deliver life saving Aid and
a chance for our Collective efforts to
chart a path for justice and peace and
as long as the council fails to demand a
ceasefire it will be considered not only
delicate the relicate in its duties but
an enabler of the most horrific crimes
we are witnessing in the Gaza in the
Gaza in these days in
Gaza the message given today to Israel
with this veto is that it can continue
to get away with
murder Israel cannot and should not and
will not get away with it we will not
allow it this veto does not observe
Israel of its obligations nor of those
who Shield it not here in the security
Council not in the in the icj and not
anywhere even if the security Council
continues to share its responsibilities
to be obstructed by The veto of a
permanent member over and over the other
organs of the International System are
upholding their responsibilities and one
day or another Palestinian children will
not be viewed as a demography threat but
as children with the right to life and
to fulfill their hopes and dreams I
thank you Madame President I thank the
permanent Observer of the Observer state
of Palestine for his statement I now
give the floor to the representative of
Israel thank you Madame
President since October 7th this Council
has voted upon numerous resolutions
constructed around the same flawed theme
the concept of a of a
ceasefire this word is constantly
mentioned in the security Council in the
general assembly and by un officials and
agencies as if it is a silver bullet a
magical solution to all of the Region's
problems for the past
137 days the only solution discussed on
the international stage is this absurd
notion of a
ceasefire will a ceas fire bring home
the
hostages will a ceas fire eliminate
Hamas will a ceasefire disarm kisala the
hutis and all the other Iranian
terrorist proxies in our region will a
ceasefire end the genocidal Ambitions of
Palestinian Terror groups aiming for
Israel's Annihilation we're still
waiting for president abas to condemn
the October 7th Massacre what exactly
will this Silver Bullet ceasefire
achieve a ceasefire achieves one thing
and one thing only the survival of Hamas
exactly the opposite the opposite of How
It's portrayed a ceasefire is a death
sentence for many more Israelis and
Gins supporting a ceasefire means
supporting the survival of jihadist
terrorists that will continue continue
butchering Israelis and endlessly
spilling the blood of
Innocence there is a reason dear
colleagues that the icj unanimously and
rightly rejected South Africa's
attempted attempt to undermine Israel's
right to defend itself by calling for a
ceasefire the very idea that Israel
would be denied this fundamental right
while Hamas would be free to continue
its Terror and hold hostages is morally
Unthinkable because as you know Hamas is
not going to even read your
resolutions so why are some on this
Council determined so determined to
impose harmful measures that the icj
refused to take you all know the
answers colleagues a ceasefire is the
epitome of a kick the can down the road
policy a ceasefire today means immunity
for baby killers and rapists it's an
easy way to make this problem an issue
for another day with a ceasefire in
place Hamas will regroup rearm and their
next attempted genocide against Israelis
will only be a question of when not if
Kamas has sworn publicly to commit the
atrocities of October 7th again and
again and again until Israel is
annihilated so why is the council
charged with security is so fixated
fixated fixated on aiding these monsters
to stay in power just yesterday Israel
exposed footage Prov proving that Shiri
bibas and her two children four-year-old
Ariel and one-year-old K were taken to
Gaza
alive so tell me distinguished council
members a 4-year-old and a baby were
taken hostage by Hamas among others and
most of you choose to support a
ceasefire why do you want to leave them
in Gaza do you not see how immoral that
it that it that is and what kind of
precedent this would set for terrorists
around the
globe did you think about baby fear when
you voted on this resolution a
resolution that would ensure that kir
along with 133 other hostages remain in
dark terot
tunnels did you think about Noah gamani
Noah's look of sheer horror as she
violently separated from her boyfriend
aino or and taken to Gaza on the back of
a motor motorbike has become a symbol of
the hostages
plight in the heartwrenching video you
can hear Noah screaming and pleading
with the terrorists not to abduct her
Noah's mother Leora born Chong Hong Le a
Chinese Israeli citizen originally from
Wuhan is terminally ill with stage four
brain
cancer all she asks is that she can hug
Noah her only daughter one last time
before she succumbs to her
illness to my Chinese
colleague I ask you in the name of Leora
Chong Hong Lee rather than pushing for a
harmful ceasefire which will keep Noah
in Gaza I urge you pressure Kamas press
Kamas to release Noah so that her mother
can see Noah one last time before her
death colleagues jihadists around the
globe see that the body mandated to
uphold International security is willing
to allow murderous Hamas rapists to
continue their reign of terror your
calls for a ceasefire ow Hamas giving
them hope to stay in power this does not
ensure security it prevents
it you truly want a ceasefire well
Israel also wants a ceasefire your
children are not the ones that are
falling in battle against blood thir
thirsty terrorists they are ours
if Hamas survives it will be our
children that Hamas will murder in Cold
Blood again Israel seeks a ceasefire but
there is only one formula that we are
willing to accept all of our hostages
must be released and Hamas must turn
themsel
in colleagues the Algerian resolution
not only empowers jihadists by calling
for a ceasefire it also fails again to
condemn Kamas for their heinous crimes
not condemning hamas's atrocities has
now become a tradition here it's tragic
Kamas Nazis invaded Israel deliberately
murdering families raping women and
girls and destroying everything they
could get their hands on they are brutal
terrorists who took pride in their
barbarism yet not once not even once
since October 7
has this Council or any un body
condemned Hamas and their violence one
day we mentioned history here when
historians studied the reasons why the
UN lost its standing and influence the
inability of this organization to
condemn terrorists that Slaughter
children will be one of the driving
factors mark my
words but the impact of this council's
decision spread much
further than this room if this council
is incapable of condemning Hamas un
officials feel like they have further
legitimacy to whitewash Hamas mere days
ago under Secretary General Griffith
stated that Hamas is not a terrorist
group but a political
movement is the intentional brutal
murder of hundreds of civilians not
terror is the systematic rape of women
not terror is beheading and burning
children alive not Terror we all know
Hamas is a terrorist organization yet by
staying silent in the face of hamas's
crimes and not condemning them you allow
such lies to
perpetuate your politicized decision of
Silence promotes the falsehoods that
Kamas can be reasoned with that they are
not the bloodthirsty terrorists that
they are and this is the stance that the
UN adopts and
promotes condemn Kamas condemn Kamas as
a councel condemn them their atrocities
read their in this institution of its
shame do it for the sake of those
butchered for the sake of the hostages
for the sake of morality and truth it's
in your hands colleagues some of you
have approached me and asked me why
Israel is so critical of the UN and its
agencies
the recent event over the past weeks
have hopefully hopefully made it clearer
clearer to you one week ago special
reporter albanez lously stated that the
victims of October 7th were not murdered
for their identity but in response to
Israel's so-called
oppression this is victim blaming and a
clear justification of Terror but for
some un employees even poisonous words
are not enough
dozens dozens of unra employees took
active roles in the October 7th Massacre
while many more praised The Savage
attack F Ali musim naami of an anra
social worker stuffed the body of
Jonathan Jonathan Samano into a truck to
be taken to Gaza aamas data center was
located directly underneath anra
headquarters in Gaza connected to an
Ra's power supply and terot tunnels have
been found running underneath various
anra facilities schools everything out
of anr's 1300 employees in Gaza 12% I
repeat 12% are members of Hamas and
Palestinian Islamic Jihad and at least
236 of them are active terrorists in
these organizations armed Wings anra has
been proven to be an instrument mental
part of hamas's Terror machine which
makes anr itself a terrorist
organization yet rather than take
responsibility for the weapon
weaponization of this murderous UN
agency commissioner General lazarini has
chosen to say that he had no knowledge
of hamas's hold on his own
agency this is blatantly false Israel
exposed terrot tunnels under unrest
schools and supplied evidence of hamas's
exploitation of anra you can see it in
my Twitter account I personally sent
letters to the commissioner General and
the Secretary General we implored them
for years to carry out a comprehensive
search of all unra facilities in Gaza
yet not only did they refuse they chose
to bury their heads in the sand and
ignore their
reality this is why every report every
statement or number provided by the un
cannot be trusted in Gaza dear
colleagues Hamas is the UN and the UN is
Hamas distinguished council members this
ostrich ostrich tactic bearing one's
head in the sand is the modus operandi
among un leadership yet no matter how
deep one's head is buried it will not
change the reality on the ground a
terrorist is a terrorist a terror
organization is a terror organization
and a low abiding liberal democracy will
remain as such even if here at the UN
for political reasons light becomes
darkness and day becomes night this is
also the case with the escal escalating
situation on Israel northern border with
Lebanon for years and you heard it here
for years Israel has called for this
Council to impose the implementation of
Security Council resolution
1701 yet for years the UN has opted for
the ostrich tactic tragically this is no
longer a situation that can be ignored
the clock is ticking it is not a matter
of years but weeks before Israel will be
forced to implement resolution 1701
ourselves just yesterday a kisala drone
was downed while flying over the Sea of
Galilee deep deep inside Israel over
2,000 kisala missiles and Rock ETS have
rained down on the cities of Israel's
North
2,000 and nearly 100,000 residents of
Northern Israel have been displaced due
to the threat posed by kisala with of
course Iran's
backing a ceasefire in Gaza is not only
destructive for Israel and the
Palestinians it also ensures that a
blind eye is turned to what is unfolding
in the rest of the region be the hooes
Relentless attacks on Maritime trade
pro-iran militias targeting even
American Service members Oris bala's
constant bombardment of Israel's North
the clock is ticking and sadly we will
be forced to take decisive action Terror
will never be tolerated Madame President
this Council must put politics aside for
the sake of its mandate a ceasefire that
allows Hamas to remain in power means
ensured death and destruction ignoring
hamas's atrocities and not condemning
them means empowering terrorists
worldwide and focusing only on Gaza
while looking away from the terror
aggression across the region will lead
to a future that none of us seek the
security Council must fulfill its
mandate it must side with Israel against
the forces of evil and it must face
reality reality
is not found when one's head is buried
in the sand thank you Madame President I
thank the representative of Israel for
his statement I shall now give the floor
to the representative of
Qatar statement on behal of the Arab of
the counil country state
Saud Arabia the United
Arab and the kdom of aligned themselves
with the statement to be delivered by
the Arab group Madam president today's
meeting is being held under extremely
difficult circumstances the situation in
the Gaza Strip has increasingly
deteriorated and we are facing the worst
humanitarian disaster the world has seen
according to Y reports today there is no
safe place in the Gaza Strip almost all
residents of the Gaza Strip whose
numbers more than 2 million these 2
million people are now refugees and
people faced with the risk of starvation
at a time when the aggression in Israel
OCC Israeli occupying power
against Palestinian Brethren has been
ongoing for five months the GC has
cautioned against the increased
frequency of military attacks against
our Palestinian Brothers we caution
against the increased number of
victims the majority of whom are women
and children who have been killed
wounded and
people under Rebel we call on the United
Nations to assume responsibility they un
officials have said that never seen a
situation such as that taking place
today the Secretary General in line
invokes article 99 of the of the
charter warned about the dangers of the
collapse of the humanitarian system and
of public order in Gaza he also called
for an immediate humanitarian ceire
there's a need to fully implement the
resolutions 2720 and 2712 SEC Council
dating 2022 Madam president of the Arab
states of the gulf cooperation Council
condemn in the firest terms that Israeli
threat to regarding the launch of a
military operation against the city of
Rafa in the city of Gaza we caution
against the fact that these threats
portend an increase in violence levels
and destabilization these threats
represent a danger to Regional stability
we firmly condemn the attempts and
forced a displacement of civilians and
we firmly reject any military engagement
in the city of Raa we against the new
humanitarian disaster in that area this
is the last refuge for hundreds of
thousands of
this we profoundly regret theion by some
donors of their financing for unra
specifically in the light of the
dangerous humanitarian situation which
we are all bearing witness to 5 million
pales people depend on the agency
especially in the Gaza Strip we align
ourselves in this regard with what was
said by the SG in his call for countries
who have Haled their support to to rec
consider and to reinstate their
financing for the agency to endian
disaster in Gaza to prevent it from
worsening our countryes reiterate their
St by position in support of the justan
cause and the legitimate rights of the
Fraternal people to establish an
independent state on the 1967 borders
with East Jerusalem as a capital Madam
president Arab states of the GCC extend
their appreciation for the negotiations
around the framework agreement for a new
humanitarian truce in goip my country
the state of katar has been facilitating
these efforts alongside the Arab
Republic of Egypt and the US to free
hostages and detainees to guarantee
greater deliveries of humanitarian
assistance and to rescue efforts in Gaza
to protect civilians the Arab states of
the GCC have profound regrets regarding
the failure of the council to adopt the
Dr resolution submitted by Algeria this
was supported by the Arab group
overwhelming majority of members of the
council this draft is a humanitarian by
its content and alliance
with we wish to emphasize in this regard
that our country will continue efforts
alongside Partners at all levels to
guarantee the achievement of immedate
humanarian in Gaza let us end the blood
leing of the Palestinian people and let
us deliver adequate volumes of
humanitarian assistance and relief to
Gaza and let us protect civilians thank
you very much for attentative of Qatar
for her statement and I now give the
floor to the representative of
Tunisia thank you Madame
President conat and your country for
presiding over the security Council this
month we thank you
for
toil for
taking
negotiations and consens on a call for
iMed humanarian
this is most urgent
measure catastrophic
circumstances this is caused by the
occation AGG crime genocide against the
Palestinian people
which forces also Contin to impose
Collective and prevent humanarian
and fuel assistance to be delivered to
Gaza
the negotiations on the draft resolution
and Council
fa mained with
the
reff
and human
organ
immediate to
prevent the occupation powers from
implementing their schemes which Target
more than
1.5 they need to prevent another for
displacement of Palestinians and
emptying of Palestinian
land
ISAC
continue to
work
daily deepening their suffering and
killing thousands including
children the security Council
faed and put the
principles humanarian
law
theong
message
Andes
CRI and
consider LA
and worsens the lack of TR and The
credibility the
policies expense thousands ofans
are based
Onan
question to the impation
of M and
abuse of the
pales we
call
questions with the same
level Council to
provide unry and
delation of Security Council resol
2720 fully support the efforts of the
unor humanarian and reconstruction coord
in Gaza
cigar add the current cic humanitarian
situation in this
trip Madam
president
detain
against only facilitate
such
to reject the
draft
all Security Council to
speak the occupation
government's to continue military
operations
and we cannot help but wonder
what is
the to play
this how many in should be killed before
this actually
happens 28,000 people 7,000
injured
and un offic not enough is the killing
of dozens of humanitarian workers and
journalists not
enough condemn the repeated attacks by
the
occupation Syria and leanon and it's
violation of their s killing of
in civilians and anything that
threatens
we will continue to make
every so that Community shoulders its
responsibilities without any selectivity
oral consideration
comp to respect international law and
international humanitarian law and end
criminal schemes and blatant violations
of the rights of the Palestinian people
thank you of Tunisia for his statement
in accordance with r 37 of the council's
provisional rules of procedure I invite
the representative of Egypt to
participate in this meeting it is so
decided I now give the floor to the
representative of
Egypt have witnessed once again a stark
example of double standards the US
delegation for the third
time the adoption by the security
Council of resolution
ones submitted by Algeria with full
support by the Arab and Islam group in
the United
Nations we are
grateful for Algeria the member of
putting forward the resolution we are
grateful for all
those of the draft
resolution the of Egypt expresses
disappointment and
frustration of the obstruction by the US
of by obstructing
this ined with maintenance of
international
where would this stand in the face of
the humanitarian suffer that the
catastrophy
level of the war in how can we call for
rules based International order while
when we call for the implementation of
these rules we are met
only when the Secretary General of the
UN
of
requested isn't the
IC indicating provisional
measures the report
from the catastrophic
humanitarian
the borders with
egpt to convin the US
delation days after the on of after more
than
30,000 persons lost their life women and
children
disting
the first country the first Arab country
to have peace
withp is more keen on the stability of
the
middle bear the
heaviest security
humanit of the
crisis the CP is committed to work to
put an end to the Bloodshed to end to to
restore
to achieve the aspirations of thean and
isi
people internationaly resoltion with
establishment of independent state along
the lines of June 1967 with
as NE and
[Music]
Med Co with the US is and Palestine
to releas
the and to deliver
humanitarian put end to the catastrophic
humanitarian situation
in to save the Palestinian brothers from
the unjust imposed on them by the
Israeli
OCC stand in the face of all attempts by
isra to
impose
forced displ on the
palanan EGP calls on the security
respons
International
to the choice forace by immediate
impation the
on but rather will create theive
conditions for Success let us negotiate
and immediate
smaling the Ws of the
wound the
wounded instead of
negotiating atmosphere of war and
destruction destructive
isra Madam
president for all of you is plain and
simple
this message
as as having political calculations it
aims only at saving the civilians EGP
War once
again catastropic RIS looming against
the Palestinian people as a result of
the declared plans of isra to have
offensive ground offensive in ra and we
warn the International Community of the
consequences of this destructive
war of Egypt for his statement uh the
representative of China has asked for
the floor to make a further statement
and I now give them the
floor thank you Madame
President earlier we heard
representative Israel raising a question
to the Chinese Elation in response we
like to say every life is precious every
life has the right to be
protected regarding your
reference the Israeli citizen Noah being
detained her mother was once a national
of China recently our diplomats here in
New York at the request of the Perman
mission of Israel met with the friends
of
Noah like the friends and family of Noah
we hope she can return home
early in fact China has never stopped
calling for the early release of all
those
detain
therefore we hope that Israel with the
mediation of Egypt
and there will be progress in
negotiating a deal as we have repeatedly
emphasized CTIC punishment for the
Palestinian civilians is not the right
response
counter productive the only way towards
the peace between the two countries is
the two states solution to avoid a
bigger
disaster the pressing priority is
immediate ceas we hope Israel that will
listen to the overwhelming voice of
International Community and after
listening to the voices of the council
members and other countries you should
make the correct judgment rather than
changing the subject for his statement
there are no more names inscribed on the
list of speakers the meeting is
adjourned
resolution and let me just say every
life matters and so it is important that
we find a solution that will stop the
the the killing and and deaths and
suffering of the Palestinian people and
that's why we're on the ground 247 no
one else is putting their people out
there uh no one else is putting skin and
boots on the ground to find a solution
uh to this situation and we'll keep
working on that every every single day I
think we have time for one
more hi Ambassador uh China described
your position that the Algerian draft
would undermine Regional efforts at the
hostage deal as completely untenable
given the situation on the ground
explain then Ambassador how the Algerian
draft would have placed those talks in
Jeopardy given that the Algerian text
also called for the immediate release of
those hostages yes but they also call
for an immediate ceasefire which would
give h M the cover of not releasing uh
the hostage part of the ceasefire that
we're working on requires that they do
exactly that and this resolution did not
make that connection and it was our
concern that it would send the wrong
message to Hamas that this resolution
which actually gives them something that
they have have asked for without
requiring them to do something in in
return would have meant that uh the the
fighting would have continued because
without the hostage releases we know
that the fighting is going to
continue thank you
all